host
  - any device, server, web browser, or computer that is connected to a network.
  - each identified by unique IP address
Local Area Network (LAN)
  - A network that connects devices which are in the same local area (like Uni campus).

Wide Area Network 
  - To have connectivity between Office 1 and Office 2.
  - Dedicated server between routers.
  - To have connectivity between different end hosts on the network.

Switch 
  - To allow connectivity on my Local Area Network.
Router
  - To route traffic between different areas of your network.
  - link different subnets and route traffic between them.
Firewall
  - Between Router and Internet.

For end hosts (PC, server, and printer) to talk to each other, need to ethernet cable these devices to the network Switch.

For a laptop to connect to wireless network, a Wireless Access Point (WAP) to connect into the Switch.

For a laptop to talk to devices out on the internet, connect Switch to Router.

Network characteristics
Topology
Speed
Cost
Security
  - Firewall and security features on router, switches, and other devices.
  - Intrusion Prevention Systems (IPS).
Availability
  - Always stays up.
  - Have backup components if one failed.
Scalability
  - Network to grow with company without redesign.
Reliability
  - Similar to availability.
  - network is reliable and continue to work.

Production Network
  - In band
  - The cables normal users would use.

Network Interface, aka NIC (network interface card)
  Hardware component that allows device to connect and communicate with a network.
  Data transmission and reception.
  Resides on motherboard or expansion card.
  Connects to network medium, like Ethernet cables/wireless signals.
  Provide hardware and software for communication.
  Has unique MAC address.
  Converts digital data into electrical signals or radio waves.
  Encapsulates data into frames/packets.
  Adds headers.
  Manages data flow based on network protocols.
  Network configuration.
    IP address, subnet mask, gateway, DNS servers.


ARP address resolution protocol
  Maps IP address to MAC address.
  Mainly IPv4 and local networks.
  If different IP subnet,
    ARP request for its default gateway.
  To check cache in linux:
    arp -n: view ARP cache.
    ip -s -s neigh flush all: clear cache.
  Process:
    ARP request.
      Device checks ARP cache (table that stores ARP mappings).
      If not found, broadcast message and asking "who the fuck has this IP address)
    ARP reply
      Include its MAC address.
      The requesting device to update its ARP cache.
    ARP caching
    ARP resolution
      The sending device encapsulate data into ethernet frame, including MAC address.
      The receiving device uses MAC address to deliver to the correct network interface.

ARP for routed traffic
  Src and dst IPs never change.
  Process:
    Source device ARP resolution.
      Check ARP cache for MAC address of next-hop router.
      Determine the MAC address of the next-hop router (default gateway)
    ARP request broadcast
      If no next-hop router MAC address in cache,
      source device initiates ARP request by broadcast message on local network.
      The request includes next-hop router IP address and source device MAC address.
    ARP reply from next-hop router
      The reply contains the MAC address of the router.
      The source then stores MAC address.
    Routing decision
      Encapsulates data, adds headers.
      Sends to the next-hop router MAC address.
    Next-hop router ARP resolution
      Perform similar ARP resolution process,
      determine MAC address of next-hop router or dst device.
    ARP reply to next-hop router
      Device with corresponding IP address responds with MAC address.
      next-hop router receives and stores MAC address.
    Forwarding data to dst
      Next-hop router encapsulates packets with routing headers.

