NAT
  Brief:
    To conserve IPv4 addresses.
    Many hosts share single IP address to outside.
    To communicate with internet with shared single IP address of LAN devices.
    Map multiple private IP address to single public IP address.
  NAT router:
    Two interfaces - private and public network
  Outbound translation
    NAT router replaces private IP address with its own public IP address.
  Pros:
    IP address conservation
      To use private IP address internally.
      Reduce the need for public IP addresses.
    Security
      NAT as a firewall by hiding internal network structure.
  Definition:
    inside global - IP address used to reach inside host.
    inside local - private IP address and port number of original packet, inside network.
    outside local address - outside host IP address.
    outside global - outside host IP address.
    ---
    outside local and global are the same because router not translate.

Static NAT
  Brief:
    1-1 translation between a private and public IP address.
    Server to receive incoming messages.
    To connect hosts to the internet.
    Bidirectional.
  Commands:
    Configuration
      int f0/0
      ip nat outside - outside interface
      int f1/0
      ip nat inside
      ip nat inside source static 10.0.1.10 203.0.113.3

Dynamic NAT
  Brief:
    A pool of public IP address is configured on NAT device.
    Outbound connection, NAT device assign public IP address from the pool.
    Translation table is updated the mapping between IP add and assigned public IP add.
    Public IP add is released back to pool when idle.
  Pros:
    Handle large number of hosts with smaller pool.
  Cons:
    Limited simultaneous outbound connections.
    DIfficult to establish reliable connections as public IP add is assigned dynamically.
  Commands:
    Configuration:
      ip nat pool Flackbox 203.0.113.4 203.0.113.14 netmask 255.255.255.248 - pool of global add.
      access-list 1 permit 10.0.2.0 0.0.0.255 
      ip nat inside source - associate access-list with NAT pool.
    Verify:
      sh ip nat translation
      sh ip nat statistics
    Others:
      clear ip nat translation - rm all dynamic translations to change Configuration.
