Hubs similar to switches
End hosts in LAN commmunicate through hub or switch.
Inter-switch links
  Switches connection with ethernet cables.


Hubs
  Half-duplex mode
    Hosts either send or receive, no simultaneously
  All hosts same collision domain
    one device transmit at a time
    if > 1, resend
    CSMA/CD Carrier-sense multiple access / collision detection
      detect collisions and resend
  broadcast commmunication
  shared bandwidth
  no packet filtering based on MAC address
  simply physical connection point for devices

Switches
  connects devices in LAN
  facilitate the efficient forwarding of data packets between devices
  either full-duplex or half-duplex
  hosts own dedicated collision domain
  no collision detection
  operates at layer 1 and 2
  MAC address learning
    add MAC address table upon received which maps MAC addresses to ports
  better performance security
  if received broadcast address or unknown unicast dst
    flood out all ports except receiver

Router
  layer 3
  determines most appropriate path
  send traffic from subnet to another
  doesnt forward broadcast traffic by default
  NAT network address translation
    devices share a single public IP address
  firewalling
    unauthorized access and malicious activities
  QoS quality of service
    prioritize specific network traffic type

Cisco ASA (adaptive sec appliance) firewalls

Cisco SourceFire FirePower IPS (intrusion prevention system)

Cisco wireless LAN controllers

Cisco wireless access points

Cisco Unified commmunication manager
  software product, IP-based PBX

Cisco IP phones

Cisco telepresence

Cisco WebEx

Cisco UCS (unified computing system)

Cisco Nexus switches

- DEVICE MANAGEMENT

Memory
  Cisco routers and switches have 4 built-in memory locations.
  ROM Read Only Memory
    First load from ROM on startup.
    POST Power On Self Test.
    Load bootstrap.
      Load IOS software image from Flash.
        boot system - ovverride.
        Can copy additional IOS system images to Flash via TFTP/USB.
      Show ROMMON prompt if IOS image cannot be found.
      ROM monitor to recover missing/corrupted software image.
      Can boot from USB/external TFTP (Trivial File Transfer Protocol) server.
      Search 'Cisco ROMMON Recovery' for device model.
  Flash / CompactFlash (newer)
  NVRAM Non-Volatile RAM
    System loads startup-config configuration file from NVRAM.
      If no startup-config, load Setup Wizard.
    Saved startup-config becomes current runnning-config in RAM.
    Command takes effect immediately and saved in runnning-config.
    To make permanent reboot changes:
      copy runnning-config startup-config
  RAM Random Access Memory
    Normal working memory.
    ROM, Flash and NVRAM are permanent memory.
    RAM is volatile memory, data lost on reboot.
  VLAN database
    vlan.dat file
    Saved in Flash or NVRAM, based on switch model.


