Introduction
  Types:
    IGP Interior gateway protocols
      For within an organization.
    EGP Exterior gateway protocols
      Between organizations over internet.
      Only used today is BGP Border Gateway Protocol.
  Determine best path for data packets to destination.
  Employ algorithms and metrics to make routing decision.
  Based on network congestion, link reliability, and administrative preferences.
  Automatically update when subneet is removed.
  Commands:
    sh run | section rip
    sh run | begin rip

Metric
  Lowest metric value is preferred.

Interior gateway protocols
  Only share info with neighbours.
  Distance vector routing protocols
  Link state routing protocols
    Each router maintains detailed database of network's topology.
    Database contains all routers, links, and networks.
    Each router floods LSAs Link-state advertisements to neighbour routers.

RIP Routing information protocol
  Distance-vector routing.
  Oldest.
  Uses hop count as metric.
  Max hop count by default is 15.
  Exchanges routing table between routers at regular interval.
  Updates stop when convergence is reached.
    All routers have consistent routing information.
  If a link/network fails,
    RIP routes mark affected routes as invalid.
    Then notify neighbours.
  Routing by rumour.
  Used in small env.
  Commands:
    debug ip rip

OSPF Open Shortest path first
  Link-state routing protocol.
  Operates within an AS Autonomous system.
  Uses SPF Shortest path first algorithm
    to calculate best path based on cost.
  Uses cost as metric.
    Cost refers to overall efficiency to send packets.
    Higher bandwidth will have lower cost.
  Routers exchange LSA link-state advertisements
    to build and maintain topology database.
    allow each router to have complete network map.

IS-IS Intermediate system to Intermediate system
  Link-state routing protocol.
  Common in large service provider networks.
  Operates at OSI layer 2.
  Uses SPF algorithm and LSPs link-state packets
    Build and maintain a network topology.
  Uses administrative distance metric to best path.
    Default by hop counts, unless costs on links configured.
    Based on link bandwidth, reliability, and administrative preferences.
  If required path manipulation,
    configure cost of links.

EIGRP Enhanced interior gateway routing protocol
  Metric based on bandwidth, delay, reliability, and load.
    Load and reliability are ignored by default.
  Path manipulation:
    Configure delay on links.
  Only supports cisco router.
